---
title: 2018年04月11日杂记
date: '2018-04-11'
description:

---

[The Principles of Clean Architecture by Uncle Bob Martin - YouTube](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=o_TH-Y78tt4)

- Architecture is about intent  
- MVC is not an architecture | 197x | smalltalk | controller get device input to model | model observer
- MVP ，业务代码与可复用代码的边界
- The reason for the DB to exist is disappearing. And we're going to have access to indefinite amounts of persistent RAM that we can store data in. NoSql movement is borne out of the idea that we don't need DB's anymore.
- Good architectures allow major architectural decisions to be deferred.

# Clean Architecture
## Introduction

>As with any metaphor, describing software through the lens of architecture can hide as much as it can reveal. It can both promise more than it can deliver and deliver more than it promise

View is stupid

> Architecture represents the significant design decisions that shape a system, where significant is measured by cost of change.

### What is design and Architecture

> The goal of software architecture is to minimize the human resources required to build and maintain the required system.

 making messes is always slower than staying clean

### 2. Behavior and Structure

- If you give me a program that works perfectly but is impossible to change, then it won’t work when the requirements change, and I won’t be able to make it work. Therefore the program will become useless.
- If you give me a program that does not work but is easy to change, then I can make it work, and keep it working as requirements change. Therefore the program will remain continually useful.

## Paradigms

1. Structured Programming，imposes discipline on direct transfer of control.
2. Object-Oriented Programming，imposes discipline on indirect transfer of control
3. Functional Programming， imposes discipline upon assignment

three big concerns of architecture: function, separation of components, and data management.

### Structured Programming

- 禁用 `goto`
- 函数分解（模块与组件）,分解为可被证伪（falsifiable）的单元

### Object-Oriented Promgramming

- combination data and funciton; modeling the real world
- encapsulation, inheritance, polymorphism

#### 封装（encapsulation）

隐藏细节，通过 api 暴露行为。封装最好的语言是 C，只暴露头文件中声明的方法，隐藏所有细节。但 C 不是 OO 语言。Java 和 C# 弱化了这种封装， it is impossible to separate the declaration and definition of a class

#### 继承（inheritance）

Inheritance is simply the redeclaration of a group of variables and functions within an enclosing scope.

#### 多态（polymorphism）

polymorphism is an application of pointers to functions. OO languages may not have given us polymorphism, but they have made it much safer and much more convenient.


#### 依赖倒置（dependence inversion）

高级函数依赖于低级函数的接口，而不是具体实现。把对具体实现的依赖分离出来。低级的实现，可以被独立部署更替。

OO is the ability, through the use of polymorphism, to gain absolute control over every source code dependency in the system.

### Functional Programming

Variables in functional languages do not vary.

隔离拥有可变变量的组件和不可变组件（纯函数）

store the transactions not state


## SOLID

不断优化一个复杂的系统，并容错性和故障恢复率的帮助下进行优化，不要期望大而全面的设计或架构，因为它们的开发以迭代的方式发生。

- SRP（单一职责）
- OCP（开闭）
- LSP（里氏替换）
- ISP（接口隔离）
- DIP（依赖倒置）

### Sinple Responsibility Principle

> A module should have one, and only one, reason to change.
> A module should be responsible to one, and only one, user or stakeholder.

### Open-Closed Principle

> A software artifact should be open for extension but closed for modification.


### Liskov substitution principle

打破 Liskov 的继承例子

    Rectangle r = ...
    r.setW(5)
    r.setH(2)
    assert(r.area() == 10) // 对 square 不成立

The best way to understand the LSP from an architectural viewpoint is to look at what happens to the architecture of a system when the principle is violated.

### Interface Segregation Principle

The lesson here is that depending on something that carries baggage that you don’t need can cause you troubles that you didn’t expect.

### Dependency Inversion Principle

flow of control 与 direction of the source code dependencies


## Component Principles

### Component Cohesion

- REP：The Reuse/Release Equivalence Principle
- CCP: The Common Closure Principle
- CRP: The Common Reuse Principle

#### REP

Classes and modules that are grouped together into a component should be releasable together.

#### CCP

Gather into components those classes that change for the same reasons and at the same times. Separate into different components those classes that change at different times and for different reasons.

#### CRP

Don’t depend on things you don’t need.

### Component Coupling

软件工程的发展史

## Architecture

### What is Architecture

Architecture 用了一个词形状（Shape）
- 这个形状的形式（form）是指系统如何划分为组件，各个组件如何安排，组件之间如何沟通。
- 这个形状的目的，是促进这个形式内的系统的开发，部署、运维和维护

要区分系统结构与系统的功能，

- 开发
- 部署
- 运维（operation）
- 维护（maintain）

### Independence

- 用例

- horizontal layer: ui, application-specific bussiness rules, application-independent BR,db
- vertical layer: user case

### Boundaries

delay decisions

### Policy and Level

- Entities，An Entity is an object within our computer system that embodies a small set of critical business rules operating on Critical Business Data.
- Use Case, A use case is a description of the way that an automated system is used. 

Model 先行

### Clean Architecture

- Entities
- User Case
- Interface Adapters
- Framework and Drivier

### Presenter

Humble Object pattern，分离易于测试和不易于测试的代码。

### Partial Boundaries

- One-Dimension阿里 Boundaries
- Facades

### Layers and Boundaries

that point, you weigh the costs of implementing those boundaries versus the cost of ignoring them—and you review that decision frequently. 

### The Main Component

- The Main component is the ultimate detail—the lowest-level policy. 
- entry point of the system

### Services

fallacies of service-based architecture

1. decouple
2. indenpendent development and deployment
 
### Test Boundary

Structure decoupling
