---
title: 2018年01月09日杂记
date: '2018-01-09'
description:
tags:
- unit-test
- jacoco
- espresso
---

- Catch more mistakes, earlier in the development process 
- Confidently make more changes
- Build in regression testing
- Extend the life of your codebase


### Espresso

跑 Espresso 之前需要先禁用系统动画，在开发者模式 -> Drawing:

- Window animation scale
- Transition animation scale
- Animator duration scale

We don't need to wait for the new screen to open - Espresso will do this automatically for us. It waits until a View with the id R.id.add_note_title can be found.

- Espresso – Entry point to interactions with views (via onView() and onData()). Also exposes APIs that are not necessarily tied to any view, such as pressBack().
- ViewMatchers – A collection of objects that implement the Matcher<? super View> interface. You can pass one or more of these to the onView() method to locate a view within the current view hierarchy.
- ViewActions – A collection of ViewAction objects that can be passed to the ViewInteraction.perform() method, such as click().
- ViewAssertions – A collection of ViewAssertion objects that can be passed the ViewInteraction.check() method. Most of the time, you will use the matches assertion, which uses a View matcher to assert the state of the currently selected view.

#### Espresso-Intents

用于拦截 App 外部 Intent 请求，并返回一个假的 Intent 作为 Result

#### Espresso-Contrib

Espresso 的一些扩展，包括支持 `RecycleView` 和 `NavigationDrawer`



### Jacoco

Android Gradle Plugin 3.0.1

#### Instrumented Test

通过 `testCoverageEnabled` 启用测试覆盖率报告，只对 instrumented test 有效：[Setting up an unified coverage report in Android with Jacoco, Robolectric, and Espresso](https://medium.com/@rafael_toledo/setting-up-an-unified-coverage-report-in-android-with-jacoco-robolectric-and-espresso-ffe239aaf3fa)

    buildTypes {
        debug {
            // Run code coverage reports by default on debug builds.
             testCoverageEnabled = true
        }
    }
    
通过下面的方式指定 jacoco 版本：

    buildscript {
        dependencies {
            classpath 'org.jacoco:org.jacoco.core:0.8.0'
        }
    }
    
#### Unit Test

用支持单元测试麻烦一些，需要自己引入 jacoco 插件

    android.testOptions {
        unitTests.all {
            // 已被文档标记为过期，但没有说明原因或者其他指示： https://google.github.io/android-gradle-dsl/current/com.android.build.gradle.BaseExtension.html#com.android.build.gradle.BaseExtension:jacoco(org.gradle.api.Action)
            jacoco { 
                includeNoLocationClasses = true 
            }
        }
    }

    apply plugin: 'jacoco'

    task jacocoTestReport(type: JacocoReport, dependsOn: 'testMockDebugUnitTest') {

        reports {
            xml.enabled = true
            html.enabled = true
        }

        def fileFilter = ['**/R.class', '**/R$*.class', '**/BuildConfig.*', '**/Manifest*.*', '**/*Test*.*', 'android/**/*.*']
        def debugTree = fileTree(dir: "${buildDir}/intermediates/classes/mock/debug", excludes: fileFilter)
        def mainSrc = "${project.projectDir}/src/main/java"

        sourceDirectories = files([mainSrc])
        classDirectories = files([debugTree])
        executionData = files("${buildDir}/jacoco/testMockDebugUnitTest.exec")
    }
    
有一个插件可以帮我们做这件事：[arturdm/jacoco-android-gradle-plugin: Gradle plugin that creates JaCoCo test reports for Android unit tests](https://github.com/arturdm/jacoco-android-gradle-plugin)

可参考 [Integrating Android project with Codecov · allegro.tech](https://allegro.tech/2016/03/integrating-android-project-with-codecov.html)


获取各个测试任务生成的 jacoco 文件

    applicationVariants.all { variant ->
      println tasks.withType(Test).
          find { task -> task.name =~ /test${variant.name.capitalize()}UnitTest/ }.jacoco.destinationFile.path
    }
